README.md, before:

# Endlessh: an SSH tarpit

Endlessh is an SSH tarpit [that *very* slowly sends an endless, random
SSH banner][np]. It keeps SSH clients locked up for hours or even days
at a time. The purpose is to put your real SSH server on another port
and then let the script kiddies get stuck in this tarpit instead of
bothering a real server.

Since the tarpit is in the banner before any cryptographic exchange
occurs, this program doesn't depend on any cryptographic libraries. It's
a simple, single-threaded, standalone C program. It uses `poll()` to
trap multiple clients at a time.



## Usage

Usage information is printed with `-h`.

```
Usage: endlessh [-vh] [-d MS] [-f CONFIG] [-l LEN] [-m LIMIT] [-p PORT]
  -d INT    Message millisecond delay [10000]
  -f        Set and load config file [/etc/endlessh/config]
  -h        Print this help message and exit
  -l INT    Maximum banner line length (3-255) [32]
  -m INT    Maximum number of clients [4096]
  -p INT    Listening port [2222]
  -v        Print diagnostics to standard output (repeatable)
```

Argument order matters. The configuration file is loaded when the `-f`
argument is processed, so only the options that follow will override the
configuration file.

By default no log messages are produced. The first `-v` enables basic
logging and a second `-v` enables debugging logging (noisy). All log
messages are sent to standard output.

    endlessh -v >endlessh.log 2>endlessh.err

A SIGTERM signal will gracefully shut down the daemon, allowing it to
write a complete, consistent log.

A SIGHUP signal requests a reload of the configuration file (`-f`).

## Sample Configuration File

The configuration file has similar syntax to OpenSSH.

```
# The port on which to listen for new SSH connections.
Port 2222

# The endless banner is sent one line at a time. This is the delay
# in milliseconds between individual lines.
Delay 10000

# The length of each line is randomized. This controls the maximum
# length of each line. Shorter lines may keep clients on for longer if
# they give up after a certain number of bytes.
MaxLineLength 32

# Maximum number of connections to accept at a time. Connections beyond
# this are not immediately rejected, but will wait in the queue.
MaxClients 4096

# Set the detail level for the log.
#   0 = Quiet
#   1 = Standard, useful log messages
#   2 = Very noisy debugging information
LogLevel 0
```

## Build issues

Some more esoteric systems require extra configuration when building.

### RHEL 6 / CentOS 6

This system uses a version of glibc older than 2.17 (December 2012), and
`clock_gettime(2)` is still in librt. For these systems you will need to
link against librt:

    make LDLIBS=-lrt

### Solaris / illumos

These systems don't include all the necessary functionality in libc and
the linker requires some extra libraries:

    make CC=gcc LDLIBS='-lnsl -lrt -lsocket'

If you're not using GCC or Clang, also override `CFLAGS` and `LDFLAGS`
to remove GCC-specific options. For example, on Solaris:

    make CFLAGS=-fast LDFLAGS= LDLIBS='-lnsl -lrt -lsocket'


[np]: https://nullprogram.com/blog/2019/03/22/

Commit message:

Added -4 -6 Switches and default tcp46
As *BSD defaults to use IPv6 only sockets and Linux to IPv4 mapped IPv6
sockets, switches to support explicit binding address families are required.

Now set explicitly if you want IPv6 only, IPv4 only or mapped IPv4.

Caveat:
OpenBSD explicitly states to not support IPv4 mapped IPv6 via setsock-API

README.md, after:

# Endlessh: an SSH tarpit

Endlessh is an SSH tarpit [that *very* slowly sends an endless, random
SSH banner][np]. It keeps SSH clients locked up for hours or even days
at a time. The purpose is to put your real SSH server on another port
and then let the script kiddies get stuck in this tarpit instead of
bothering a real server.

Since the tarpit is in the banner before any cryptographic exchange
occurs, this program doesn't depend on any cryptographic libraries. It's
a simple, single-threaded, standalone C program. It uses `poll()` to
trap multiple clients at a time.



## Usage

Usage information is printed with `-h`.

```
Usage: endlessh [-vh] [-d MS] [-f CONFIG] [-l LEN] [-m LIMIT] [-p PORT]
  -4        Bind to IPv4 only
  -6        Bind to IPv6 only
  -d INT    Message millisecond delay [10000]
  -f        Set and load config file [/etc/endlessh/config]
  -h        Print this help message and exit
  -l INT    Maximum banner line length (3-255) [32]
  -m INT    Maximum number of clients [4096]
  -p INT    Listening port [2222]
  -v        Print diagnostics to standard output (repeatable)
```

Argument order matters. The configuration file is loaded when the `-f`
argument is processed, so only the options that follow will override the
configuration file.

By default no log messages are produced. The first `-v` enables basic
logging and a second `-v` enables debugging logging (noisy). All log
messages are sent to standard output.

    endlessh -v >endlessh.log 2>endlessh.err

A SIGTERM signal will gracefully shut down the daemon, allowing it to
write a complete, consistent log.

A SIGHUP signal requests a reload of the configuration file (`-f`).

## Sample Configuration File

The configuration file has similar syntax to OpenSSH.

```
# The port on which to listen for new SSH connections.
Port 2222

# The endless banner is sent one line at a time. This is the delay
# in milliseconds between individual lines.
Delay 10000

# The length of each line is randomized. This controls the maximum
# length of each line. Shorter lines may keep clients on for longer if
# they give up after a certain number of bytes.
MaxLineLength 32

# Maximum number of connections to accept at a time. Connections beyond
# this are not immediately rejected, but will wait in the queue.
MaxClients 4096

# Set the detail level for the log.
#   0 = Quiet
#   1 = Standard, useful log messages
#   2 = Very noisy debugging information
LogLevel 0

# Set the family of the listening socket
#   0 = Use IPv4 Mapped IPv6 (Both v4 and v6, default)
#   4 = Use IPv4 only
#   6 = Use IPv6 only
BindFamily 0
```

## Build issues

Some more esoteric systems require extra configuration when building.

### RHEL 6 / CentOS 6

This system uses a version of glibc older than 2.17 (December 2012), and
`clock_gettime(2)` is still in librt. For these systems you will need to
link against librt:

    make LDLIBS=-lrt

### Solaris / illumos

These systems don't include all the necessary functionality in libc and
the linker requires some extra libraries:

    make CC=gcc LDLIBS='-lnsl -lrt -lsocket'

If you're not using GCC or Clang, also override `CFLAGS` and `LDFLAGS`
to remove GCC-specific options. For example, on Solaris:

    make CFLAGS=-fast LDFLAGS= LDLIBS='-lnsl -lrt -lsocket'


[np]: https://nullprogram.com/blog/2019/03/22/
